1. Consul cluster recovery with snapshot. Considering all data directory is deleted:-
Bring up the fresh Consul cluster with empty data.
Restore the snapshot from the latest snapshot taken.

2. No snapshot is available, but backup of data directory is available.
Copy the content from the backup dir to the Consul data directory for any given Consul server.
Start Consul on all servers.
When you'll run "consul members" and "consul operator raft list-peers" you'll get error 403 (ACL not found).
Run "consul acl bootstrap" and then you'll get error "Failed ACL bootstrapping: Unexpected response code: 403 (Permission denied: rpc error making call: ACL bootstrap no longer allowed (reset index: 274))"
Refer this doc for ACL reset https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/secure/acl/reset
After following above step your cluster will be recovered and back to normal with previous data.
Note: The above scenario is reproducible if you dont have the ACL bootstrap token associated with the backup data directory. If you have the ACL bootstrap token associated with the backup data directory
then you don't need the above steps, it will get auto recovered.

Note: If "consul members" and "consul operator raft list-peers" not working due to ACL errors ( 403 (ACL not found)) and you want to know the leader, run below command:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/status/leader

3. peers.json recovery :-
Why it is used?
In this cluster recovery scenario, you still have live, healthy servers with fully current Raft data on disk — but you've permanently lost enough other servers that the survivors can no longer reach a majority. 
When losing multiple Consul servers results in a loss of quorum and a complete outage, partial recovery is possible using data on the remaining servers in the cluster. 
However, in the event that a backup of data dir or snapshot is either unavailable or corrupted, you can perform a cluster recovery from a single surviving server node. This node does not have to be the leader.
Odd number of servers (e.g. 5), you lose more than half permanently (disk failure, terminated VM, etc.), but the rest are alive and you don't want to lose any committed data since your last snapshot.
peers.json recovery can actually recover data that snapshot-based recovery would never have captured, since snapshots are periodic and Raft logs are continuous.
The Problem: Raft Quorum Loss
Consul uses the Raft protocol to manage state. Raft requires a strict majority (quorum) of servers to agree on everything. If you have a 3-server cluster, 2 servers must be alive and talking to each other to elect a leader.

If a cluster does not have a leader, the HTTP API stops accepting writes, which means you cannot run consul snapshot restore.

Here are the two specific disaster scenarios where your approaches will fail, and peers.json is your only way out:

Scenario 1: Permanent Loss of Quorum (The "Last Node Standing")
Imagine you have a 3-server cluster. A catastrophic hardware failure permanently destroys Server B and Server C. Only Server A survives. Server A has a perfect, intact data directory.

Why Method 1 fails: You try to run consul snapshot save or restore, but it fails because Server A refuses to elect itself leader (it knows it needs 2 votes, but it only has 1). The API is locked.

Why Method 2 fails: You restart Server A with its data directory intact. It boots up, reads its Raft database, and says, "I'm waiting for B and C to come back before I do anything." It will wait forever.

The peers.json Fix: You stop Server A, create a peers.json file that contains only Server A, and start it. This forcefully performs "brain surgery" on Server A's Raft database. It tells Server A: "Forget B and C. They are dead. You are the only server in the cluster now." Server A immediately elects itself leader (1 out of 1 votes), the API unlocks, and the cluster is saved.

Scenario 2: Migrating to New IPs (The "Lift and Shift")
Imagine you need to move your Consul servers to a completely new datacenter or VPC. You back up the data directory from the old servers and copy it to three brand-new servers with different IP addresses.

Why Method 2 fails: You start the new servers using the old data directories. The servers boot up, but the Raft database inside that data directory has the old IP addresses hardcoded into it. The new servers aggressively try to contact the old IPs to form a quorum, fail, and the cluster never starts.

The peers.json Fix: You stop the servers, place a peers.json file on them containing the new IP addresses, and restart. Consul overwrites the Raft log with the new network topology, allowing the servers to find each other, form a quorum, and elect a leader using the restored data.

Summary
To connect this to your observations:

Fresh Cluster + Snapshot: This works smoothly because when you bootstrap a "fresh" cluster, it forms a new quorum first. Once it has a leader, it gladly accepts your snapshot data via the API.

Data Directory Copy: This worked in your test because you likely restored the data to servers that maintained the same network topology, or you brought enough servers online simultaneously to satisfy the Raft configuration stored inside that backed-up directory.

You use Snapshots to restore state. You use peers.json to force a broken cluster to talk to itself again.

Note:-
1.The bootstrap_expect setting is only taken into account for nodes with an empty Consul data directory that are forming a new cluster.
2. The peers.json file must only include the node that was not lost in the outage. If you had more than one node that survived an outage situation, you must include all of them in this file.
